---
title: "The Gendered Process of Migration: Labour-Market Behaviour of Left-Behind Wives in Mexico"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-migration-flfp
excerpt: 'This paper explores the effect of male emigration from Mexico on women's labour-market behavior. It borrows from existing gender, labour-market, and migration literature and uses nonlongitudinal data extracted via an ethnosurvey approach by the Mexican Migration Project (MMP). The results show that Mexican women's labor-market behavior may face normative constraints that limit their ability to undertake paid work. This is exacerbated by living in a household where the main provider is a migrant and whose absence results in an increased burden of unpaid domestic labor on his non-migrant spouse. This study contributes to a growing line of research suggesting that women's economic choices in developing countries can be shaped by gender norms rather than by economic or institutional characteristics alone.'
date: 2020-08-30
venue: 'Working Paper'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/migration-flfp.pdf'
citation: 'Reyes Ortega, Johanna. (2020). &quot;The Gendered Process of Migration: Labour-Market Behaviour of Left-Behind Wives in Mexico.&quot; <i>Working Paper</i>.'
---
This paper explores the effect of male emigration from Mexico on women's labour-market behavior. It borrows from existing gender, labour-market, and migration literature and uses nonlongitudinal data extracted via an ethnosurvey approach by the Mexican Migration Project (MMP). The results show that Mexican women's labor-market behavior may face normative constraints that limit their ability to undertake paid work. This is exacerbated by living in a household where the main provider is a migrant and whose absence results in an increased burden of unpaid domestic labor on his non-migrant spouse. This study contributes to a growing line of research suggesting that women's economic choices in developing countries can be shaped by gender norms rather than by economic or institutional characteristics alone. 
[Download paper here](http://johannareyeso.github.io/files/migratioon-flfp.pdf)

Recommended citation: Reyes Ortega, Johanna. (2020). "The Gendered Process of Migration: Labour-Market Behaviour of Left-Behind Wives in Mexico." Working Paper.
